Automated tests are regression tests, meaning their goal is to prove that nothing is broken.

I'll now show two test-cases. One verifies that the log-in page works. The other checks that a user can make a request entry and successfully save it.

So, here I have an Excel spreadsheet of usernames, passwords, and whether they work. This is my test data.

Now I head to the TestSuite spreadsheet and change execution to "Yes" for the VerifyLoginPage test.

Now I run it.

Each entry in the test data spreadsheet is run. The test was successful, and we get a nice report.

If authentication somehow started failing and arbitrary username/password pairs were accepted, this test would immediately alert us and we could fix it immediately before an attacker got into the system.

Let's now get this test-case to fail. I'll go ahead and change this entry from "Invalid" to "Valid", which should make the test fail.

We run it again, and the test now fails. When we open the generated report, we now see that a screenshot was taken of where the test failed. This should help our developers debug.

Now let's try a more complicated test case. We'll create a request entry, submit, and then confirm it's been saved.

I go ahead and change execution to "Yes" for the test.

And now we run.

As you can see, a request entry was filled out and saved.

We can also run this test-case in the background in headless mode. I just modify the browser to "Headless", and here we go.

If you look at the command prompt, you'll notice that it prints the ID of our new request entry. The test has run and passed!

So that's basically how the tests work. Long-term, of course, our goal is to run these against our builds to confirm that they work 

So let's navigate over to Jenkins. We can see that there are three Jenkins jobs. One of these, trunk_dev_maven, polls the SVN server every minute, and then builds the project if it detects changes. The other job, trunk_itoa, then deploys the project.

Our ultimate goal is to have a third Jenkins job between these that runs the tests on the built project. If the tests fail, no deployment. Nice and simple.

So this is basically what we're up to. The project's going through some re-writes now, so we're not clear when all this will happen, but hopefully soon. Any questions?
